# (Andy) Short Technical Communication Questions

1. What does O(n) mean? O(n^2)?

To me, O(n) is a label signifying that some measure of an algorithm's
performance (usually running time) scales linearly with the size of its input.
O(n^2) signifies that an algorithm's performance scales exponentially with the
size of its input.  This is often because of nested iteration over the input.

2. Describe the quick sort algorithm.

Quicksort is a very good general purpose sorting algorithm that usually runs in
linearithmic (O(n log n)) time, but can tend toward quadratic (O(n^2)) time
with some unfortunate inputs.  It is implemented by choosing a pivot element,
ensuring that all elements smaller than the pivot are to the left of the
pivot's location and that all elements larger than the pivot are to the right
of the pivot's location, then recursing to the subarrays on either side of the
pivot.

3. In C, what is a pointer?

In C, a pointer is a data type containing a memory address.  A pointer can
serve as a reference to the actual value held in the memory it points to.
Reading the value of the memory address stored in a pointer is called
dereferencing.

4. What is the difference between Stack and Heap memory?

Stack memory is a portion of system memory that is fast to access, efficiently
organized, and automatically deallocated.  It is intended for relatively small
variables used locally by functions, and there is a limit on how much stack
memory can be used.  Heap memory is unlimited in size, but it is somewhat
slower to access, must be explicitly allocated and deallocated, and can become
fragmented.

5. What is the purpose of a garbage collector?

Garbage collectors free programmers from manually managing memory at the price
of performance.  Typically a garbage collector will automatically free the
memory associated with an object once all references to the object are removed.
Garbage collection helps prevent memory leaks in programs, and prevents the
creation of some memory mismanagement bugs.
